doc: nRF desktop - Split docs into subpages (#13938)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: applications/nrf_desktop/integration.rst

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

This section describes how to adapt the nRF Desktop application to different hardware, and lists the steps required for adding a new board.

.. tip::
   Make sure to get familiar with the :ref:`nrf_desktop_configuration` section before porting the application to a new board.

.. _porting_guide_adding_board:

Adding a new board
******************

When adding a new board for the first time, focus on a single configuration.
Moreover, keep the default ``debug`` build type that the application is built with, and do not add any additional build type parameters.
The following procedure uses the gaming mouse configuration as an example.

Zephyr support for a board
==========================

Before introducing nRF Desktop application configuration for a given board, you need to ensure that the board is supported in Zephyr.

.. note::
   You can skip this step if your selected board is already supported in Zephyr.

Follow the Zephyr's :ref:`zephyr:board_porting_guide` for detailed instructions related to introducing Zephyr support for a new board.
Make sure that the following conditions are met:

> #. Edit the DTS files to make sure they match the hardware configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Edit the DTS files to make sure they match the hardware configuration.
```

   Pay attention to the following elements:

   * Pins that are used.
   * Bus configuration for optical sensor.
   * `Changing interrupt priority`_.

> #. Edit the board's Kconfig files to make sure they match the required system configuration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Edit the board's Kconfig files to make sure they match the required system configuration.
```

      Peer control details are described in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_bond` documentation.

#. Edit Kconfig to disable options that you do not use.
   Some options have dependencies that might not be needed when these options are disabled.
   For example, when the LEDs module is disabled, the PWM driver is not needed.

.. _porting_guide_adding_sensor:

Adding a new motion sensor
**************************

This procedure describes how to add a new motion sensor into the project.
You can use it as a reference for adding other hardware components.

The nRF Desktop application comes with a :ref:`nrf_desktop_motion` that is able to read data from a motion sensor.
While |NCS| provides support for two motion sensor drivers (PMW3360 and PAW3212), you can add support for a different sensor, based on your development needs.

Complete the steps described in the following sections to add a new motion sensor.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Add a new sensor driver
=======================

First, create a new motion sensor driver that will provide code for communication with the sensor.
Use the two existing |NCS| sensor drivers as an example.

> The communication between the application and the sensor is done through a sensor driver API (see :ref:`sensor_api`).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The communication between the application and the sensor happens through a sensor driver API (see :ref:`sensor_api`).
```

For the motion module to work correctly, the driver must support a trigger (see ``sensor_trigger_set``) on a new data (see ``SENSOR_TRIG_DATA_READY`` trigger type).

When the motion data is ready, the driver calls a registered callback.
The application starts a process of retrieving a motion data sample.
The motion module calls ``sensor_sample_fetch`` and then ``sensor_channel_get`` on two sensor channels, ``SENSOR_CHAN_POS_DX`` and ``SENSOR_CHAN_POS_DY``.
The driver must support these two channels.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Create a DTS binding
====================

Zephyr recommends to use DTS for hardware configuration (see :ref:`zephyr:dt_vs_kconfig`).
For the new motion sensor configuration to be recognized by DTS, define a dedicated DTS binding.
See :ref:`dt-bindings` for more information, and refer to :file:`dts/bindings/sensor` for binding examples.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Configure sensor through DTS
============================

Once binding is defined, it is possible to set the sensor configuration.

> This is done by editing the DTS file that describes the board.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To define the binding, edit the DTS file that describes the board.
```

For more information, see :ref:`devicetree-intro`.

> As an example, take a look at the PMW3360 sensor that already exists in |NCS|.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As an example, take a look at the PMW3360 sensor that is already available in the |NCS|.
```

          spi-max-frequency = <2000000>;
        };
    };

The communication with PMW3360 happens through the SPI, which makes the sensor a subnode of the SPI bus node.
SPI pins are defined as part of the bus configuration, as these are common among all devices connected to this bus.
In this case, the PMW3360 sensor is the only device on this bus, so there is only one pin specified for selecting the chip.

When the sensor's node is mentioned, you can read ``@0`` in ``pmw3360@0``.
For SPI devices, ``@0`` refers to the position of the chip select pin in the ``cs-gpios`` array for a corresponding device.

Note the string ``compatible = "pixart,pmw3360"`` in the subnode configuration.
This string indicates which DTS binding the node will use.
The binding should match with the DTS binding created earlier for the sensor.

The following options are inherited from the ``spi-device`` binding and are common to all SPI devices:

* ``reg`` - The slave ID number the device has on a bus.
* ``label`` - Used to generate a name of the device (for example, it will be added to generated macros).
* ``spi-max-frequency`` - Used for setting the bus clock frequency.

>   .. note::
>       To achieve full speed, data must be propagated through the application and reach Bluetooth LE a few hundred microseconds before the subsequent connection event.
>       If you aim for the lowest latency through the LLPM (an interval of 1 ms), the sensor data readout should take no more than 250 µs.
>       The bus and the sensor configuration must ensure that communication speed is high enough.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  .. note::
     To achieve full speed, data must be propagated through the application and reach Bluetooth LE a few hundred microseconds before the subsequent connection event.
     If you aim for the lowest latency through the LLPM (an interval of 1 ms), the sensor data readout should take no more than 250 µs.
     The bus and the sensor configuration must ensure that communication speed is high enough.
```

The remaining option ``irq-gpios`` is specific to ``pixart,pmw3360`` binding.
It refers to the PIN to which the motion sensor IRQ line is connected.

If a different kind of bus is used for the new sensor, the DTS layout will be different.

.. rst-class:: numbered-step

Include sensor in the application
=================================

Once the new sensor is supported by the |NCS| and the board configuration is updated, you can include it in the nRF Desktop application.

The nRF Desktop application selects a sensor using the configuration options defined in :file:`src/hw_interface/Kconfig.motion`.
Add the new sensor as a new choice option.

The :ref:`nrf_desktop_motion` of the nRF Desktop application has access to several sensor attributes.
These attributes are used to modify the sensor behavior in runtime.
Since the names of the attributes differ for each sensor, the :ref:`nrf_desktop_motion` uses a generic abstraction of them.
You can translate the new sensor-specific attributes to a generic abstraction by modifying the :file:`configuration/common/motion_sensor.h` file.

> .. tip::
>     If an attribute is not supported by the sensor, you do not need to define it.
>     In such case, set the attribute to ``-ENOTSUP``.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
.. tip::
   If an attribute is not supported by the sensor, you do not need to define it.
   In such case, set the attribute to ``-ENOTSUP``.
```

The HID over GATT profile specification requires Bluetooth Peripherals to define the following GATT Services:

* HID Service - Handled in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_hids`.
* Battery Service - Handled in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_bas`.
* Device Information Service - Implemented in Zephyr and enabled with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_DIS` Kconfig option.
  The device identifiers are configured according to the common :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_device_identifiers` by default.
  You can configure it using Kconfig options with the ``CONFIG_BT_DIS`` prefix.

The nRF Desktop peripherals must also define a dedicated GATT Service that is used to provide the following information:

* Information whether the device can use the LLPM Bluetooth connection parameters.
* Hardware ID of the peripheral.

The GATT Service is implemented by the :ref:`nrf_desktop_dev_descr`.

Apart from the GATT Services, an nRF Desktop peripheral device must enable and configure the following application modules:

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_adv` - Controls the Bluetooth advertising.

> * :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_latency` - Keeps the connection latency low when the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` is used or when either the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_smp` or :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr` receive an update image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_latency` - Keeps the connection latency low when the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` is used or when either the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_smp` or :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu_mcumgr` receives an update image.
```

  This is done to ensure quick data transfer.

Optionally, you can also enable the following module:

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_qos` - Forwards the Bluetooth LE channel map generated by :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_qos`.
  The Bluetooth LE channel map is forwarded using GATT characteristic.
  The Bluetooth Central can apply the channel map to avoid congested RF channels.

>   This results in better connection quality and higher report rate.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  This results in better connection quality and a higher report rate.
```

    This allows to pair with the nRF Desktop device using both Fast Pair and normal Bluetooth pairing flows.
    This advertising payload is also used during the erase advertising.
  * If the used Bluetooth local identity already has a bond, the device is no longer in the pairing mode and the Fast Pair not discoverable advertising is used.
    This allows to pair only with the Fast Pair Seekers linked to Google Accounts that are already associated with the nRF Desktop device.
    In this mode, the device rejects normal Bluetooth pairing by default (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_FAST_PAIR_LIMIT_NORMAL_PAIRING <config_desktop_app_options>` option is enabled).
    The Fast Pair UI indication is hidden after the Provider reaches :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_STATE_MAX_LOCAL_ID_BONDS` bonded peers on the used local identity.
  * The :ref:`nrf_desktop_factory_reset` is enabled by default if the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` is supported by the device.
    The factory reset operation removes both Fast Pair and Bluetooth non-volatile data.
    The factory reset operation is triggered using the configuration channel.

> After successful erase advertising procedure, the peripheral removes all of the bonds of a given Bluetooth local identity.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
After a successful erase advertising procedure, the peripheral removes all of the bonds of a given Bluetooth local identity.
```

Apart from that, the following changes are applied in configurations that support Fast Pair:

* The static :ref:`partition_manager` configuration is modified to introduce a dedicated non-volatile memory partition used to store the Fast Pair provisioning data.
* Bluetooth privacy feature (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PRIVACY`) is enabled.
* The fast and slow advertising intervals defined in the :ref:`nrf_desktop_ble_adv` are aligned with Fast Pair expectations.
* The Bluetooth advertising filter accept list (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_CAF_BLE_ADV_FILTER_ACCEPT_LIST`) is disabled to allow Fast Pair Seekers other than the bonded one to connect outside of the pairing mode.
* The security failure timeout (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_SECURITY_FAIL_TIMEOUT_S <config_desktop_app_options>`) is longer to prevent disconnections during the Fast Pair procedure.

> * Passkey authentication (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_ENABLE_PASSKEY <config_desktop_app_options>`) is disabled on keyboard.
>   Currently, Fast Pair does not support devices that use screen or keyboard for Bluetooth authentication.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Passkey authentication (:ref:`CONFIG_DESKTOP_BLE_ENABLE_PASSKEY <config_desktop_app_options>`) is disabled on the keyboard.
  Currently, Fast Pair does not support devices that use a screen or keyboard for Bluetooth authentication.
```

* :ref:`nrf_desktop_hid_forward` - Subscribes for HID reports from the Bluetooth Peripherals (HID over GATT) and forwards data using application events.

.. _nrf_desktop_bootloader:

Bootloader
**********

The nRF Desktop application can use one of the following bootloaders:

**Secure Bootloader**
  In this documentation, the Secure Bootloader is referred as *B0*.
  B0 is a small, simple, and secure bootloader that allows the application to boot directly from one of the application slots, thus increasing the speed of the direct firmware upgrade (DFU) process.
  B0 is supported on the SoCs from the following series:

  * nRF52 Series
  * nRF53 Series (supports only application core DFU)

  This bootloader can be used only for the :ref:`background DFU <nrf_desktop_bootloader_background_dfu>` through the :ref:`nrf_desktop_config_channel` and :ref:`nrf_desktop_dfu`.
  For more information about the B0, see the :ref:`bootloader` page.

**MCUboot**
  MCUboot is supported on the SoCs from the following series:

  * nRF52 Series
  * nRF53 Series

  The MCUboot bootloader can be used in the following scenarios:

  * :ref:`Background DFU <nrf_desktop_bootloader_background_dfu>`.

>     In this scenario, the MCUboot either swaps the application images located on the secondary and primary slot before booting a new image (``swap mode``) or boots a new application image directly from the secondary image slot (``direct-xip mode``).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    In this scenario, the MCUboot either swaps the application images located on the secondary and primary slots before booting a new image (``swap mode``) or boots a new application image directly from the secondary image slot (``direct-xip mode``).
```

.. _nrf_desktop_configuring_mcuboot_bootloader:

Configuring the MCUboot bootloader
==================================

To enable the MCUboot bootloader, select the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOTLOADER_MCUBOOT` Kconfig option in the application configuration.

The MCUboot private key path (:kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BOOT_SIGNATURE_KEY_FILE`) must be set only in the MCUboot bootloader configuration file.
The key is used both by the build system (to sign the application update images) and by the bootloader (to verify the application signature using public key derived from the selected private key).

The MCUboot bootloader configuration depends on the selected way of performing image upgrade.
For detailed information about the available MCUboot bootloader modes, see the following sections.

Swap mode
---------

In the swap mode, the MCUboot bootloader moves the image to the primary slot before booting it.
The swap mode is the image upgrade mode used by default for the :ref:`background DFU <nrf_desktop_bootloader_background_dfu>`.

> If the swap mode is used, the application must request firmware upgrade and confirm the running image.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If the swap mode is used, the application must request a firmware upgrade and confirm the running image.
```

Adding a new device
===================

The device specifies which protocol is used for the communication by adding the specific device information to the plugin metadata.
For the ``nordic_hid`` plugin, this file is located at `nordic-hid.quirk`_.
The following example shows the information passed to the plugin metadata:

.. code-block:: console

   [HIDRAW\VEN_1915&DEV_52DE]
   Plugin = nordic_hid
   GType = FuNordicHidCfgChannel
   NordicHidBootloader = B0

In this console snippet:

* ``[HIDRAW\VEN_1915&DEV_52DE]`` - This line describes the device instance ID provided by the OS, which identifies the device.
* ``Plugin = nordic_hid`` and ``GType = FuNordicHidCfgChannel`` - These lines set the plugin that the device uses.
* ``NordicHidBootloader`` - This optional line selects the bootloader that the device is running.
  If the device does not have the information about the underlying bootloader, the ``NordicHidBootloader`` option is used to select a proper bootloader type.
  If there is no information about the bootloader, both in metadata and from the device, the update procedure fails.

>   The possible values are either ``B0``, ``MCUBOOT`` or ``MCUBOOT+XIP``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  The possible values are either ``B0``, ``MCUBOOT``, or ``MCUBOOT+XIP``.
```

This section describes how to adapt the nRF Desktop application to different hardware, and lists steps required for adding a new board.

.. tip::

>    Make sure to get familiar with the :ref:`nrf_desktop_board_configuration_files` section before porting the application to a new board.

Author: @MarekPieta : Please confirm if the ref link is correct.

Reviewer 3: I would add a new tag right above `Configuration` section and link there (would be more straightforward)
